Limor eyes into polypeptide chains this
is a ball and stick model of a generic
amino acid you can identify the amino
group the carboxylic acid group the
central carbon and the R group in water
both the amino and carboxylic acid
groups are ionized two amino acids can
combine through the formation of a
peptide bond this condensation reaction
involves the release of water the
resulting bond is known as a peptide
bond and there it is we can add amino
acids to the ends of the polypeptide
typically in biological systems this
occurs only at the c-terminus
this process can continue and generate
extremely long polypeptides some over a
thousand amino acids in length
unlike simple single bonds peptide bonds
are relatively rigid they act a little
bit like bonds and 1/2 generally our
groups are in the trans configuration
that is on the opposite sides of the
peptide bond
the sis configuration is generate
generally energetically unfavorable
although you can probably imagine that
the size of the R group makes a
difference there is free rotation around
the other bonds in the chain the atoms
of the peptide bond are also
hydrogen-bond acceptors and donors up to
this point we've been talking about
peptide bonds made between amino acids
but things are a little different when
we use the amino acid prolene here we're
going to make a peptide bond with a
proline added on to the c-terminus of a
polypeptide
you can see the peptide bond now you can
ask yourself where the next peptide bond
would be made a little different from
the way it was before so now answer
these questions
how does incorporation of a prolene into
a polypeptide chain influence the
polypeptide chain structure and how does
the size and charge on adjacent R groups
influence the rotation around the
peptide bond